K8s: Flexible deployment/multi-namespace feature DOC-529 (#2279)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/kubernetes/deployment/deployment-options.md

---
Title: Flexible deployment options
linktitle: Deployment options
description: Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes allows you to deploy to multiple namespaces. This article describes flexible deployment options you can use to meet your specific needs. 
weight: 12
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: [
    /kubernetes/deployment/deployment-options.md,
    /kubernetes/deployment/deployment-options/,
]

---

> Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes can be deployed in several different ways depending on your database needs.

Reviewer: Maybe?
```suggestion
You can deploy Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes in several different ways depending on your database needs.
```

> A single Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) can manage multiple Redis Enterprise database objects (REDB) in multiple namespaces within the same Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 2: correctness suggestion:
"""
a single Redis Enterprise operator manages:
  -A single Redis Enterprise Cluster custom resource in the same namespace as the Redis Enterprise operator.
  - Multiple Redis Enterprise Databases custom resources in multiple namespaces that are associated to the same Redis Enterprise Cluster.
"""

## Single REC and single namespace (one-to-one)

> The standard and simplest way is with your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) and Redis Enterprise databases (REDB) residing within the same namespace. No additional configuration is required for this, since there is no communication required to cross namespaces. See [Deploy Redis Enterprise Software on Kubernetes]{{<relref "/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start.md">}}.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: 
> residing within the same namespace **as the Redis Enterprise operator**.

> The standard and simplest way is with your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) and Redis Enterprise databases (REDB) residing within the same namespace. No additional configuration is required for this, since there is no communication required to cross namespaces. See [Deploy Redis Enterprise Software on Kubernetes]{{<relref "/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start.md">}}.

Reviewer 3: Quick-start link is rendered incorrectly (I think missing `()` around the `{{<relref>}}`.

> The standard and simplest way is with your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) and Redis Enterprise databases (REDB) residing within the same namespace. No additional configuration is required for this, since there is no communication required to cross namespaces. See [Deploy Redis Enterprise Software on Kubernetes]{{<relref "/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start.md">}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The standard and simplest way is with your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) and Redis Enterprise databases (REDB) residing within the same namespace. This requires no additional configuration since there is no communication required to cross namespaces. See [Deploy Redis Enterprise Software on Kubernetes]{{<relref "/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start.md">}}.
```

> The standard and simplest way is with your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) and Redis Enterprise databases (REDB) residing within the same namespace. No additional configuration is required for this, since there is no communication required to cross namespaces. See [Deploy Redis Enterprise Software on Kubernetes]{{<relref "/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start.md">}}.

Reviewer 2: suggestion:
"""
The standard and simplest way is to have your Redis Enterprise Database custom resources in the same namespace as your Redis Enterprise Cluster custom resource. No additional configuration is required for this, since there is no communication required to cross namespaces. See [Deploy Redis Enterprise Software on Kubernetes]{{<relref "/kubernetes/deployment/quick-start.md">}}.
"""

> ![One-to-one deployment option](/images/platforms/k8s-deploy-one-to-one.png)

Reviewer 3: Some notes about the terminology used in the attached diagrams:
- "Service Rigger" - we use "Services Rigger" (plural).
- "REC Operator" - I don't think we use this. Maybe "Redis Enterprise Operator" or "RE Operator"?
- "RS" - do we use this externally? Maybe "Redis Enterprise pods" or "Redis Enterprise StatefulSet"?

Author: I pulled these diagrams from Brad's powerpoint. I'll create a new doc ticket to redo/improve the diagrams.

## Single REC and multiple namespaces (one-to-many)

> A single Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) can manage multiple Redis Enterprise database objects (REDB) in multiple namespaces within the same Kubernetes cluster. See [Manage databases in multiple namespaces]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-clusters/multi-namespace.md">}}) for more information.

Reviewer 2: correctness suggestion:
"""
Multiple Redis Enterprise Database custom resources in multiple namespaces can be associated to a single Redis Enterprise Cluster custom resource. See [Manage databases in multiple namespaces]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-clusters/multi-namespace.md">}}) for more information.
"""

![one-to-many deployment option](/images/platforms/k8s-deploy-one-to-many.png)

## Multiple RECs and multiple namespaces (many-to-many)

A single Kubernetes cluster can contain multiple Redis Enterprise clusters (REC), as long as they reside in different namespaces. Each namespace can host only one REC.

> You have the flexibility to create databases in separate namespaces, or in the same namespace as the REC, or combine any of the supported deployment options above. This configuration is ideal for running a variety of applications in the same Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: One operator can only manage a single REC, so multiple RECs require multiple operator deployments (in different namespaces). This is indeed illustrated in the attached diagram, but probably needs to be mentioned in the text as it's a key element of this deployment option.

> You have the flexibility to create databases in separate namespaces, or in the same namespace as the REC, or combine any of the supported deployment options above. This configuration is ideal for running a variety of applications in the same Kubernetes cluster.

Reviewer 3: As for the "this configuration is ideal...", maybe it's worth highlighting that this deployment option is geared towards use cases that require multiple Redis Enterprise clusters with greater isolation / different cluster configurations (e.g., different Redis Enterprise versions, different operator versions, different storage setup, cluster tuning parameters, etc, ...).

See [Manage databases in multiple namespaces]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-clusters/multi-namespace.md">}}) for more information.

![many-to-many deployment option](/images/platforms/k8s-deploy-many-to-many.png)

## Unsupported deployment patterns

### Cross-cluster operations

Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes does not support operations that cross Kubernetes clusters. Redis Enterprise clusters (REC) work inside a single K8s cluster. Crossing clusters could result in functional and security issues.

> ![cross cluster deployment antipattern](/images/platforms/k8s-deploy-cross-namespaces.png)

Reviewer 3: TBH, I'm not sure what "cross-cluster operations" and "crossing clusters" mean here. Do you refer to some specific unsupported deployment pattern we've seen customers attempt?

Author: This is referring to the limitation that all these RECs and REDBs have to reside in the same K8s cluster. You can't have an REC in one k8s cluster monitor a REDB in a different K8s. You can cross namespaces, but not K8s clusters.

Reviewer 3: No argument about this limitation. The point I was trying to make, is that the REC/REDB APIs don't expose anything that can look like a cross-cluster operation, so I'm not sure it's correct to say that these operations are "not supported" or "could result in..." since such operations merely don't exist within our APIs (unless I'm unaware of some bizzare configurations that customers have attempted and expected to link REC/REDBs across clusters?)

Author: Oh so you are saying it's not even possible to do this?

Reviewer 3: Right. All references between objects are by name thus local to the cluster.
E.g., an REDB definition references the REC in which it's created like this:
```yaml
spec:
  redisEnterpriseCluster:
    name: re-cluster
```
And there's no way to reference a REC from another cluster.

Reviewer 3: One notable exception to this is the upcoming AA controller, which does have some aspects of managing a multi-cluster entity. But that still shouldn't appear in the documentation.

Author: ok. I think I'll leave it as is for now and update it when we release the AA controller for better clarity. In general it's to warn customers when they are designing their deployment not to plan to cross clusters.

### Multiple RECs in one namespace

Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes does not support multiple Redis Enterprise clusters (REC) in the same namespace. Creating more than one REC in the same namespace will result in errors.

> ![multicluster deployment antipattern](/images/platforms/k8s-deploy-multicluster-antipattern.png)

Reviewer 3: Another unsupported deployment pattern is one in which the REC resides in a different namespace than the operator. Consider adding a section about it?

Author: I've added a note to the intro section about this.
